---
title: Community
---

## Regulatory/public organisations
Marine Scotland is a directorate of the Scottish Government and is the lead marine management organisation in Scotland. It integrates core marine functions involving scientific research, compliance monitoring, policy and management of Scotland's seas through its three main divisions: Compliance, Policy and Science. Marine Scotland’s mission is to “manage Scotland's seas for prosperity and environmental sustainability” and has a vision of having “clean, healthy, safe, productive, biologically diverse marine and coastal environments, managed to meet the long term needs of nature and people”. Marine Scotland Science (MSS) provides expert scientific and technical advice and services on issues relating to marine and freshwater fisheries, aquaculture, marine renewable energy, and the aquatic environment and its flora and fauna. MSS also provides the evidence to support the policies and regulatory activities of the Scottish Government through a programme of monitoring and research. The Marine Scotland Science Oceanography group routinely implements, runs and uses output from hydrodynamic models for a variety of marine science applications and research, and are the custodians of the Scottish Shelf Model (SSM).
The Scottish Environmental Protection Agency (SEPA) is a non-departmental public body of the Scottish Government and is “Scotland’s principal environmental regulator, protecting and improving Scotland’s environment” (https://www.sepa.org.uk/). SEPAs role is to “make sure that the environment and human health are protected, to ensure that Scotland’s natural resources and services are used as sustainably as possible and contribute to sustainable economic growth”. SEPA have a small group of hydrodynamic modellers mainly focused on using hydrodynamic models to support the regulation of the Scottish aquaculture industry.
The Joint Nature Conservation Committee (JNCC) is “the public body that advises the UK Government and devolved administrations on UK-wide and international nature conservation” (https://jncc.gov.uk/). Scottish Natural Heritage (SNH) is a government agency that “promotes, cares for and improves Scotland’s natural heritage” (https://www.nature.scot/).
Certain activities in the marine environment require a marine license, such as the deposit of substances or objects into the sea or onto the sea bed, the removal of substances or objects from the sea bed, construction, alteration and improvement works, dredging and the deposit or use of explosives.
