# Establishing a “living document” as a resource and a forum
Like many scientific areas, the modelling of Scottish Coastal Waters is a diverse and evolving topic. Even practitioners in the area can find it difficult to keep track of the broadening applications and new technological approaches. Scientists, technologists in related disciplines, and participants in related industries (i.e. almost any marine industry), may find it very difficult to engage, partly through simple ignorance of ongoing activity, and partly inexperience of the value of model output and analysis tools. Government, government agencies and NGOs may also be interested in the available capability and expertise but establishing a working relationship is hindered by difficulty of access.
Access is one key objective. NEHM Forum is also improving access by organising workshops to acquaint researchers in adjacent areas with the range of hydrodynamic modelling In Scotland and to provide training in basic data access and analysis. This document also contributes to access by gathering much of the relevant information in a single place.
A “living document” allows new information and ideas to be added. Though the document will be moderated by MASTS NEHM Forum, the intention is to be relaxed towards the introduction of new material. Readers should note therefore that there will be some personal views in the text, but monitoring by the Forum should ensure that these need to be underpinned by facts.
# Underpinning expertise in support of the care of Scottish coastal waters
Scotland derives part of its prosperity from its seas, while at the same time it is a cherished environment. Scottish Government must balance the various interests in Scottish seas. A directorate of Scottish Government takes the lead in this respect (“Marine Scotland is responsible for the integrated management of Scotland's seas. Its purpose is to manage Scotland's seas for prosperity and environmental sustainability…”) but works with other agencies and external bodies to deliver the best possible advice to government. MASTS contains a large part of the marine scientific and technological expertise within Scotland and the NEHM Forum provides a meeting point for those using modelling to achieve their objectives. Therefore, we are in a strong position to enable the actions of Scottish Government, Marine Scotland and other actors. This document acts as both a repository of key knowledge and a directory to reach expertise and capability.
# Establishing a foundation of existing capability and a prospectus for progress
The next decade will present new challenges, but these can be met given the right tools and resources. This document sets out to identify the challenges and some of the ocean modelling tools that can inform solutions. Contained within this document are summaries of capability and some illustrative examples of application. There are also entries describing “a direction of travel”, including technological development of modelling capability, new applications of that capability, and the evolving context of the Scottish marine environment and industry.

